## UD 1.6 Empiriska metoder
Empirical method in web development is the process of investigating and gathering knowledge to fulfill pre-established requirements. The research and investigation can be divided up into three stages. These are the following: before, during and after development. Before development, one method that can be used is google analytics. This can be used to analyze competitor websites to track what works well for them and the areas they lack. Important areas to analyze are content and keywords that bring traffic. By collecting the different data, the new website can implement the good areas from competitors and improve the areas they lack and thus become more profitable and recognized. This is also a way to get to know the target audience, their behavior, and interests when using the competitor websites. During the development, data that can be collected are the areas the audience interact the most and least with. It allows developers to determine user satisfaction based on the time spent and the interaction made with a particular content. After the development of the website, the research goal is to analyze all the data that was gathered before and during development to determine its accuracy but also to identify unforeseen scenarios that were not discovered.

Another empirical method that can be conducted are interviews. There are several aspects to consider before doing an interview. Firstly, the person being interviewed must be informed of the purpose of the interview. This also includes informing how the data is going to be used and only use data based on GDPR. Secondly, the place and time of the interview is just as important to consider. Is it going to be held in a secluded place, crowded restaurants or outside. Similarly, the time needs to be distributed based on the numbers of questions that are going to be asked. In addition, it crucial to be professional and abstain from asking intimate and personal questions. Lastly, consider the type of documentation that is going to be implemented. These can be simply taking notes, recording, or doing a post-analysis.

Although most interviews are formal and lack enough knowledge of the audience, one specific interview method that is great is called contextual interview. This method is known as an informal interview where the user is interviewed in their own home. During the interview, researchers essentially ask questions while observing and listening as the user is navigating the website. This form of interview in many ways is great since researchers can learn more about their audience personally. For instance, researchers can gather information about the user’s setup, what device they prefer to use, their internet connection etc.

# **Sources**:  

1. [chasacademy.instructure.com](https://chasacademy.instructure.com/)
    - PowerPoint [Tisdag 17.10] - UX och UI design samt prototyper
    - PowerPoint [Onsdag 18.10] - Målgruppsanalys och empiriska metoder
    - PowerPoint [Torsdag 18.10] - Användbarhet och grundläggande kognitionspsykolog
2. [usability.gov](https://www.usability.gov/how-to-and-tools/methods/contextual-interview.html)